.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.Dd August 05, 2010
.Dt GRFDiff 1
.Sh NAME
.Nm GRFDiff
.Nd A tool to create a binary GRF diff from to GRFs.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm grfdiff
.Op Fl hnxyv
.Op Fl l Ar numbers
.Op Fl o Ar GRF-File
.Ar Original-GRF-file
.Ar New-GRF-file
.Pp
Compare the two GRF files and produce a GRD file containing only the
sprites from the second file that are different from the first file.
.Pp
GRFDiff makes a .GRD file with the same basename as the new GRF file.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag
.It Fl h
Display the help message.
.It Fl l Ar numbers
Save the sprites with these numbers in the .GRD instead of
finding the modified sprites.  With this option, the first
GRF file can be omitted.
.Pp
Format of the numbers: <from1>[-<to1>][,<from2>[-<to2>]]...
e.g.  1-5,8,20-31 (must be increasing numbers).
.It Fl n
Only show a list of modified sprites, don't make a .GRF file.
.It Fl x
Make a self-extracting (.EXE) file instead of a .GRD.
.It Fl y
Answer 'y' to all questions.
.It Fl v
Display the version.
.El
.Pp
You can specify several sets of GRF files along with their
.Fl l
options by separating them with a double-dash `--'.
The result will be written to a single .GRD file.  Only
.Fl l
is valid after the first set.
.Sh SEE ALSO
The documentation in
.Pa /usr/share/doc/grfcodec/
.Sh AUTHOR
GRFDiff was written by Josef Drexler.
.Pp
This manual page was written by Remko Bijker.
.Sh COPYRIGHT
GRFDiff is Copyright (C) 2003 by Josef Drexler <jdrexler@uwo.ca>
